I bunderson hey I'm speaking to the
enigmatic and brilliant dumb vegan
what's up man some of the websites are
used are blocked in China and and some
are not so I'm currently streaming to
you nail which is a miracle of modern
science that I can do that from China
and I'm talking to you by skypes that's
great and I'm recording audio only so
great oh so we can use this a podcast or
if you want to do so let's start with a
really edgy questions maybe you have
questions for me you can hit me with
whatever man i'm really not shy so my
deep and incisive first question for you
is how long have you been vegan um two
and a half years well alright not bad
and uh uh what role did free lee's
difficult to define sex if you'll have
in your conversion to veganism or your
decision to start a YouTube channel or
both um not zero percent i will say that
two and a half years ago i just i ask
that question probably cuz i think to a
half years ago what is said freely was
just at about her peak of kind of
unquestioned influence you know on on
youtube and uh you know she got covered
in the newspapers and so on i would say
two and a half years ago she was pretty
much at the pinnacle of her influence so
obviously could be complete coincidence
but i just thought it asked because you
really come up in the time when her
shadow was the longest sure yeah it's a
it's a fair question and it's not
something that I would steer away from
her try to deny I mean the influence of
freely durianrider but hey you know just
as much the influence of forks over
knives and you know the girl in college
that took me to a place in ordered tofu
and I didn't know what the hell she was
talking about and didn't think I could
ever do it because I was allergic to so
I and you know and then those you know
at all it's all paints a big picture you
know I can't say was one thing or other
but i certainly don't deny somebody like
free Lisa influence on my cell phone you
know I was a your random person lurking
around on YouTube and finding all sorts
of social media personalities talking
about such things so sure and yeah two
and a half years ago I mean she was some
I mean I don't know I think
could be wrong about this but I feel
like that's kind of when she started
doing the the kind of video call outs
where she would throw in the like
factory farm footage type of stuff is
that is that wrong is that was that not
yep they might have been less than that
I don't know yep yep yeah would look I
mean there are a lot of things
interesting what you just said one that
leaps out to be those so you you're
allergic to soy so you actually a soy
free vegan Wow well well here's the
thing I've been I was I've been allergic
to legumes uh since I was a young
whippersnapper and I've actually gotten
over some of them specifically probably
trying out more stuff just out of
curiosity you know what's going vegan so
um yeah I can actually eat so I know
it's weird man like I don't know exactly
what the deal is and there's a there in
the lagoon families so like I've been
low waist allergic to peanuts right and
you know I can't I can eat a little bit
of some of that stuff now and then
there's some that I just can't even have
a single bite up but you can't have a
single bite of a lintel or green peas or
I'll just you know I have a really bad
allergic reaction but I've actually kind
of curved it with soy and I don't know
why that is and i didn't think i could
have black beans or refried beans there
no not necessarily refried I didn't
large free refried beans of course but
uh you know like I didn't think I could
have those at all and it's weird like I
can eat those now all the time so I
maybe never was allergic to some of
these types of things that i lumped in
with all ookums I don't know I was
always kind of safe well that's really
interesting me the only reason I know
about that allergy was that once and i
was living in laos i met a really cute
attractive woman and i wouldn't even say
we dated but we went out to restaurants
a couple times and yet it's not dating I
assure you but you know I I was
interested in her she was there doing
research and humanitarian work too so we
had we had some obvious interest income
but when the first thing she said to me
was she could never be vegan because she
had the most extreme form of that
allergy probably it's the same medical
condition she had a more extreme part a
more extreme case of it but for her if
she ate any legumes whatsoever her heart
would
up beating and she needed to have I'm
sorry i forgot the chemical she needed
something directly injected into her
heart to restart the heart beating it
was absolutely the most extreme form but
I remember saying to her right off the
bat I was like you're cute but I'm not
gonna stop eating be serious stuff man I
mean there's all sorts of people you
know all sorts of allergies that like
you you would never think of in a year
about it and then they're like well I'm
gonna tell you it'll kill me if I don't
take a shot with a epinephrine or
whatever right right so in terms of
legumes started to Stefan one second
okay can you eat peas can you eat some
of the some sort supporting that are not
true beans because a pea technically is
not a bean but I don't know how it falls
into that that LG uh right so yeah I
mean I can't have those so that and that
could precisely be you know what it is
is it's you know maybe it's not the
beans that I like I say I mean I think
III maybe never was allergic to soy but
it was you know potentially in like
something and i associated it with cuz
maybe there was also peas in whatever I
thought and then I took you know
pinpointed it as 0 must be the soy but
you know I didn't know yeah yeah so I
know sorry I don't just kind of derail
in the conversation but I think it is
probably interested in people and it's
interesting to me I I feel like I
couldn't survive without beans so you
know it's maybe maybe this is a dumb
question the kick your dumb vegan but uh
what do you do for protein um I mean
well I do I mean now I I eat black beans
and things like that now so I like I say
I wasn't I there's a really good chance
i was actually never allergic to certain
kinds of beans like black beans or you
know red beans white beans or whatever
but now once i figured out that i wasn't
allergic to them i do now eat them all
the time well so i just made another
bizarre reason why i know a bit about
this is that you know I've studied
ancient languages also and one of the
things I was trying to figure out
because in translating ancient languages
even if you're interested philosophy or
politics historically before the modern
era before the discovery of you know
North America
columbusoh discovery of Haiti by
Columbus whatever you wanna say um you
know when you have words that mean bean
I was wondering what does this actually
mean which I what beans in ancient
Greece or ancient India or ancient China
I was looking at stuff of what I figured
out is EO today we have this one word in
English bean but actually in terms of
you know evolutionary history and even
the history of human culture and
civilization the they have very
different histories you know one thing
that we call a bean really comes from
Mexico and reflects you know whole
ancient history of human cultivation in
Mexico and another I mean like soy beans
soy beans are genuinely part of the
history of China for more than 30,000
years so they're a toad I we just have
one word we just call beans but yeah so
I'm not surprised when you say it turns
out you can eat black beans but
apparently you can't eat many other
kinds of legumes yeah that's good news
black beans are fabulous protein sources
right right i mean i get we're saying
there we laugh a lot of things together
you know in modern culture as as that
there are you know in similar families
and things but that's there's no reason
to necessarily lump them in as closely
as we do together you know they are
they're kind of lots of things are
really their own thing and we we do kind
of want them together one that's not
necessarily appropriate but yeah then
you kind of learn you know like I mean
there's you know like different beans
have different levels of carbohydrate
versus protein constant like soybeans
are much higher protein than like you
know a black pain but you know there
they are pretty similar still I see why
you know a soybean is called a soybean
or you know right so I want to push you
on your earlier admission there was some
good looking girl in college who took
you to a restaurant and ate tofu in
front of you and this was a turning
point take me take me back to that
moment this is when you first heard the
the concept of veganism for concept of
vegetarianism maybe what what happened
uh well no I guess I kind of I kind of
wished that a little bit but I think
that um it's a it's a good example of
like somebody that was vegan you know I
didn't meet too many vegans probably the
first time I ever heard the concept of
veganism was on The Simpsons when Lisa
was considering going vegetarian or did
but then like at the end
the episode she's in the kwik-e-mart and
she's eating that she's like she
couldn't get ready to [ __ ] off
vegetarianism because she just came from
the barbecue where Homer was you know
like doing his barbecue thing and she's
getting ready to eat a hotdog and then
she takes a bite and a poo is like oh
you're enjoying my tofu hot dogs and
then she's like tofu and then anyway she
finds out the food he doesn't say vegan
but he says he doesn't need anything
that comes from an animal so that was
probably technically my first exposure
to the idea of veganism but you know I
didn't it didn't stick when I was seven
years old yeah didn't you start looking
into it then or anything yeah so now I
was using that example because i think
you know she was one of the only vegan
said really met in my life you know that
i talk to and it actually talked about
it anyway uh and I mean you know III
thought I was like I was like oh yeah
well that's cool and then I remember
asking her it's kind of funny I was like
well I'm allergic to you know so I like
what did that conversation there but
like I at least thought that I was no
highly allergic to soy and I was like so
you know I I don't and I end all the
good so I was like so I don't know if I
could get the protein she would kind of
like was like she was kind of quiet
she's like yeah I guess so but like I
mean she I kind of wonder if she was
like well there's other ways to you know
get present if you want to do it but she
didn't say that so um that's cool with
the progress your condition have you
been working I've been working with the
doctor to figure that's the photo has it
just been traveling error for you figure
out what you can and can't eat it sounds
like it's been you know you've been yeah
I mean I went to an allergist once when
I was 12 but like they said I was looked
like there were the results as they sent
me like they said I was allergic to
grass and like they didn't even I can't
you know it was like it seemed really
faulty I'm like I didn't really trust
the diagnosis I mean I don't know it
didn't it did do it wasn't had anything
because I've never had any problems
grass or I think they said I was there
two dogs two or something and I was like
well not so what can you do yeah yeah
it's it no I mean I got I got used to it
really quick when I was young and I just
I just figured out what I could have and
what I kind of haven't just rolled with
it and it's never been you know I if I
eat something that I can't have I just
take a benadryl and I'm pretty good to
go in 20 minutes yeah so just saying
above myself but by contrast
I did not learn about veganism from The
Simpsons but you know it's funny for me
growing up I grew up in Toronto Canada
and you know like my childhood really
child it was so much dominated by left
wing ideology and like left-wing
politics is all this emphasis on
changing the world through helping the
poor the workers the fact you know these
kind of left with your labor unions
that's the idea of progress and whenever
the issues of animal rights or veganism
came up anything like that vegetarianism
veganism that was always lumped into one
category with kind of superstition and
Hinduism you know and to be fair it's
not completely without reason but in my
childhood it wasn't that I hadn't heard
of vegetarianism or veganism but there
was this sense that that was part of the
feudal medieval backwards religious
world whereas the future was going to be
you know people putting on spacesuits
and you know giant robots fighting each
other in World War three and that kind
of thing so this really was a sense for
me the transition in a lot of ways was
switching from thinking about
vegetarianism as part of the past to
being an important part of the present
in the future but I've got to say in a
sense I always knew the concept and it
was always there to compete with the
other big ideas I'd say that's my work